It might surprise you to hear that computer science majors at UT and other top universities have only recently become extremely competitive. During the first year that I worked at UT in 2011, UT CS received fewer than 600 applications and admitted over 50% of its applicants. Back then, petroleum engineering was the most desirable and competitive major since the price of oil was around $100. However, five years later, CS received more than five times the number of applications for around 2,700, but even then, the admissions rate was still over 20%. 

UT refuses to make the CS admissions statistics public, but I suspect the range is 10,000 to 13,000 CS applicants in recent cycles while admitting 700 students. A comparison would be with UC Berkeley, who has published their CS stats, and fewer than 4% of their CS applicants get in.

COMPUTER SCIENCE APPLICATION NUMBERS HAVE SKYROCKETED SINCE 2015

Application numbers have skyrocketed in recent years with the emergence of AI, large language models, quantum computing, nanotechnology, and blockchain into the mainstream, making CS an appealing choice. Students and families also see it as a probable way to have a secure, well-paying job that might also offer flexible and work-from-home opportunities. There’s also been an explosion of coding boot camps, programming summer programs, and other opportunities to explore programming and CS outside of school. Specific to UT, Austin is increasingly a hub for prominent tech startups and legacy corporations. 

 you rank outside the top 10%, it’s almost impossible to get into UT Computer Science (or Electrical/Computer Engineering). So, you should strongly reconsider applying.
UT-AUSTIN ALTERNATIVES TO COMPUTER SCIENCE

UT-Austin has many programs that are adjacent to computer science. Some of them are more competitive than others. Alternatives that are still pretty competitive include mechanical engineering with an emphasis on robotics and mechatronics, electrical and computer engineering, and aerospace engineering for drones and unmanned flight. Moderately competitive alternatives include the McCombs Management Information Systems program, Statistics and Data Science in the College of Natural Sciences, applied math, computational biology, and physics. The demand for data science and information-oriented careers are likely to exceed software or computer engineering jobs over the next decade.
Another somewhat alternative is Management Information Systems from Mccombs.
Somewhat less competitive majors are Informatics, the Arts and Entertainment Technologies (AET) program in Fine Arts, and the new major in the College of Liberal Arts BS in Behavioral and Social Dats Sciences. You can also look at certificates or minors that any major can pursue in statistics and data science, Computational Science and Engineering, applied statistical modeling, elements of computing, quantum information science, and scientific computation.

I also raise these alternatives to also point out how some of these might fit better for our rapidly changing global economy and technology sectors. If you’re a student who ranks at the very top of your high school class, has a 1500 or higher on the SAT, and has a strong CS-related resume, then you should consider putting UT CS as your top choice. You can also apply for CS or computer engineering at other universities at A&M and UT-Dallas, where your chances are higher, and then try for different first-choice major at UT. Still, it’s a good idea to think more broadly about your future studies and career than computer science since that’s what almost everyone defaults to nowadays.

