 Source: Reddit — r/[subreddit unknown]
Thread Title: Informatics major in University of Texas at Austin
Flair: Question
Approximate Date: ~4 years ago
Upvotes: 13 | Downvotes: 12

Original Post — Illustrious_Menu9792 (OP)
Hi, I just got accepted to the Informatics major as an external transfer. Does anyone know about this major at UT? I'm looking forward to studying data/UX design but I'm not sure about UT Informatics major since its undergrad was made in Fall 2021. (Most of the informatics major was made this year so I'm a little bit worried.)
Also, how is Austin? I'm worried about getting an internship, and I don't know a lot about the city.
If you have any information that you know about Informatics or just about the school please let me know :) thanks

Comments
dontpanicitsorganik | 4 years ago | Upvotes: 12 (edited)
Alright, so here's the tea on transferring: DO IT.
I think only about half of all college students actually get internships and the ones that don't end up perfectly fine. I'm a junior and I still haven't gotten an internship. I might just use my summer to volunteer and take fun classes (looks way better on a resume IMO). You're only young once — just enjoy college because before you know it you'll be stuck in work life! The pandemic also made it very hard to get internships all over the country. You may have better luck than me in finding an internship since you're interested in data science or UX. I'm doing health informatics and UX, and unfortunately, the field is so new that people are still discovering it exists. For context I'm working to become a UX designer specifically in healthcare.
The program is awesome. Since it's new, everyone knows each other and the professors want feedback from students. This is your opportunity to get involved! The program has about 100 undergraduate students right now and I'm the oldest major student. It's mostly freshmen but some more transfer students will come in each semester and there are plenty of sophomores in the program. Most students in this year's class are out-of-state students. The grad students also love to talk to undergrads!
Austin is a very tech-centered city. Jobs in informatics are booming and the city is number one I think in growth for jobs, population, etc. Austin has about 1 million people but doesn't feel like it. Traffic is a literal nightmare though, but the people are awesome. My commute to campus is about 40-45 minutes. I grew up here and I want to stay here after I graduate and go to grad school at UT.
All of my classmates at UT have been very studious which I love since I've always been a nerd. The people at my previous university were childish and I was legitimately shocked when I met such well-spoken, mature people here at UT.
Stepping on a lego is less painful than driving on Mopac... or 35... or 183... or Burnet Road... or the Nordstrom parking garage at the Domain. Have someone from Austin teach you how to drive the Austin way. We drive a lil crazy.
Imposter syndrome is real but temporary.

Illustrious_Menu9792 (OP) | 4 years ago | Upvotes: 2 (reply to dontpanicitsorganik)
Thank you so much! Your answer helped me a lot :)

AloneIncome8 | 1 year ago | Upvotes: 2 (reply to dontpanicitsorganik)
Hi! Recently got in for Informatics — wondering about job prospects. Do you mind sharing what you ended up doing with the degree? Any regrets?

[deleted] | 4 years ago | Upvotes: 4 (edited)
Hey! We're the undergrad representatives for the Informatics program. This account is run by freshmen but if you would like more information on the external transfer experience in our program then u/dontpanicitsorganik would definitely be a great resource, as she is also an external transfer student in the program. Don't hesitate to DM us with any questions you may have!

Illustrious_Menu9792 (OP) | 4 years ago | Upvotes: 1 (reply to deleted)
Thank you! :)

dontpanicitsorganik | 4 years ago | Upvotes: 3 (reply to deleted)
LMAO Y'ALL

[deleted] | 4 years ago | Upvotes: 2 (reply to dontpanicitsorganik)
Love you ❤️

[deleted] | 3 years ago | Upvotes: 1
Do you mind sharing external Informatics transfer tips?

samureiser | 4 years ago | Upvotes: 3
I'll ping u/UT_Ugrad_Informatics who knows a lot about it. For your other questions, I'd recommend checking out the r/UTAdmissions wiki which answers questions such as: Is UT Austin the right school for me? What is Austin, Texas like? What do I need to know as an external transfer applicant?

Illustrious_Menu9792 (OP) | 4 years ago | Upvotes: 1 (reply to samureiser)
Thanks!

Dry_Butterscotch3271 | 4 years ago | Upvotes: 1
What semester did you transfer for?